# Budget Justification

## Software Engineer

*2 month/y in years 1 and 2; 1 month in year 3*

Requirements include experience with system software and surface dynamic
modeling (delta and near-shore processes, in particular), model coupling,
abilities in high level (e.g. IDL, Matlab) and operational level (e.g. C,
C++, Fortran, Python) languages, grid and mesh generation, and numerical
methods (e.g. Eulerian, Lagrangian, implicit/explicit solvers, finite
difference, and finite element methods).

Eric Hutton is the Senior Software Engineer on the NSF-funded CSDMS
(Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System) project. He is also
a lead software architect for the NSF-funded *landlab* project.
He has proven experience in multi-language codes, sediment
transport and geophysical model development, and model coupling.
Duties will include overseeing and coordinating the model development
necessary to componentize the identified models so that they conform to the CSDMS model-coupling protocols and to bring them into the landlab programming
framework. He will additionally, translate *rift2d* (Fortran) into Python
using the *landlab* modeling tools.


## Accounting Technician and System Administration

*System Administration: .0432 months/y in years 1, 2, and 3*  
*Accounting Specialist: .152 months/y in years 1, 2, and 3*

Partial salary is requested for technical assistance to support the executing,
administration and accounting of Center activities. INSTAAR is a unique unit
of the University of Colorado.  It is solely dedicated to research and
completely separated, though complimentary, to the traditional academic
departments.  INSTAAR is an interdisciplinary Earth and Environmental Systems
Institute, and houses large and complex research programs.  Each individual
investigator has access to a depth and broad range of scientific expertise
that complements his/her research. The system Administrator is responsible for
the IT needs of the project.

## Fringe Benefits

Fringe Benefits are calculated on requested salary per the University's
federally negotiated Indirect Cost Rate Agreement, with the Department of
Health and Human Services (DHHS). Applicable rates are 30% for academic
faculty, 37.6% for research personnel, and 13.2% for graduate research
assistants.

## Travel

Travel is requested for 3 annual team meetings. Kick-off meeting in
year 1 in New York City, NY (*Airfare Denver to New York at $250; 4 nights
at $253 per night; 4 days per diem at $74 per day; ground
transportation at $100*)

Team meeting in year 2 in Minneapolis, (*Airfare Denver to Minneapolis
at $153; 3 nights at $152 per night; 3 days per diem at $64 per day; ground
transportation at $102*)

Team meeting in year 3 in Socorro, NM, (*Airfare Denver to Socorro
at $105; 3 nights at $97 per night; 3 days per diem at $51 per day; ground
transportation at $42 per day*)

In addition travel is requested to attend the annual AGU meeting in
San Francisco (in year 3) to present project results and to conduct
a hands-on teaching clinic for the software generated by this project.
(*Airfare Denver to San Francisco $314; 5 nights at $289 per night;
5 days per diem at $77 per day; ground transportation at $105;
conference registration of $502*).

## Facilities and Administration (F&A) Costs

Facilities and administration (F&A) costs are charged according to the
University’s federally negotiated rate agreement. The F&A cost rate
for on-campus research is 53% of Modified Total Direct Cost (MTDC),
predetermined for the period 7/1/14 - 6/30/15, 53.5% of MTDC,
predetermined for the period 7/1/15 - 6/30/16; 54% MTDC, predetermined
for the period 7/1/16 - 6/30/18; provisional thereafter per HHS
agreement dated 07/27/2017.

## Inflation

The University of Colorado’s current budget planning parameters
include an annual inflation factor of 3% for salaries of investigators,
post-doctoral researchers, graduate research assistant, and hourly
students. Tuition is estimated to increase 3% per year, fringe
benefits are estimated to increase 4% per year, and other direct
costs such as travel, can be inflated at 2.3% per year (inflation
of other direct costs is optional).
