# Abstracts Resulting from the CSDMS-2.0 Award

1.  Adams, JM, NM Gasparini, GE Tucker, E Istanbulluoglu, EWH Hutton, DE Hobley, and S Nudurupati.  Modeling wildfire and hydrologic response to global climate change using the landlab modeling environment. AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts, 1:0847, 2013.
1.  Ashton, AD, Nienhuis, J, Ortiz, AC, Trueba, JL, Giosan, L, Kettner, AJ, Xing, F, 2013. Effects of marine reworking and sea-level rise on deltas of the 21st century, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Backus, L, Giordanengo, J, Sacatoro, I, Kettner, AJ, Koch, M, Walsh, J, Fried, L, 2013. Cloud forest restoration for erosion control in a Kichwa community of the Ecuadorian central Andes Mountains, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Barnhart, K, Overeem, I, Anderson, R.S., 2013. Influence of the sea-ice edge on the Arctic nearshore environment. AGU Annual Meeting, San Francisco, Dec 9-13, 2013.
1.  Best, J, Cohen, S., Syvitski, JPM, 2014, Spatiotemporal trends in fluid density at confluences of large rivers, World’s Large River Conference 2014, Brazil.
1.  Birchler, JJ; Harris, CK; Arango, HG; Hutton, EW; Jenkins, CJ; Delivery of sediment to the continental slope: numerical modeling tools for the northern Gulf of Mexico. ASLO AGU Ocean Sciences Meeting 2014, 23-28 February 2014, Honolulu, Hawaii USA, Abstract ID: 16630.
1.  Brakenridge, GR, Syvitski, J, Quaternary Geoscience and Flood hazard. Geological Society of America Annual Meeting, 27-30 Oct., 2013. Denver, CO, USA.
1.  Chen, Y, I Overeem, A Kettner, S Gao, JPM Syvitski 2014, Modeling Flood Dynamics Along the SuperElevated Channel Belt of the Yellow River, China, over the Last 3,000 Years, EP44A-02, 2014 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Cohen, S, Kettner, AJ, Syvitski, JPM, 2013. Anthropogenic effects on global riverine sediment and water discharge - a spatially explicit analysis, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Cohen, S, Syvitski, JPM, and Kettner, AJ, 2014. On the sensitivity of global suspended sediment modeling to dams. CSDMS 2014 annual meeting, Uncertainty and Sensitivity in Surface Dynamics Modeling, Boulder Colorado, USA.
1.  Cohen, S., Kettner, A., Syvitski, JPM, 2012, A distributed analysis of Human impact on global sediment dynamics.  2012 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 3-7 Dec, GC53C-1301.
1.  Cohen, S., Kettner, A.J., Syvitski, J.P.M., 2013. Human and climate impact on global riverine water and sediment fluxes - a distributed analysis. American Geophysical Union (AGU Meeting of the Americas), Cancun, Mexico.
1.  Cohen, S., Kettner, A.J., and Syvitski, J.P.M., 2012. Spatio-temporal dynamics in riverine sediment and water discharge between 1960-2010 based on the WBMsed v.2.0 Distributed Global Model.  Frontiers in Computational Physics conference, Boulder, CO, USA.
1.  Cohen, S., Kettner, AJ, Syvitski, JPM, 2013, Complex relationships between Riverine Sediment and Water Discharge in in large global basins, 2013 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 9-13 Dec
1.  Cohen, S., Kettner, AJ, Syvitski, JPM, 2014. Spatially and Temporally Explicit Prediction of Sediment, Nutrients and Water Discharge in Global Rivers. AAG, Tampa, Florida, USA.
1.  Cohen, S., Kettner, AJ, Syvitski, JPM, Yamazaki, D 2014, Global-scale simulation of river-floodplain water and sediment exchange within a riverine modeling framework EP44A-06 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Di Achille, G, Longhitano, S, Ferranti, L, Hutton, E, Kettner, A, and Rossi, AP, 2014. Quantitative 2D and 3D modeling of a ancient Gilbert-type fan delta in Shalbatana Vallis, Mars: paleoclimatic and paleohydrologic implications. 87th congress of the Italian Geological Society, Milan, Italy.
1.  Gao, J-H, Jia, J., Kettner, AJ, and Xing, F, 2014. Changes in water and sediment exchange between the Changjiang River and Poyang Lake under natural and anthropogenic conditions, China. CSDMS 2014 annual meeting, Uncertainty and Sensitivity in Surface Dynamics Modeling, Boulder Colorado, USA.
1.  Giosan, L., Coolen, M.J.L., Kaplan, J.O., Constantinescu, S., Filip, F., Filipova-Marinova, M., Kettner, A.J., Thom, N., 2012, Early Anthropogenic Transformation of the Danube-Black Sea System. AGU.  San Francisco, CA
1.  Gochis, D.J., S.D. Peckham, J.S. Arrigo, J.S. Famiglietti, J.T. Reager, J. Edman 2012, Progress and opportunities in Earth System model coupling with emphasis on hydrological model components, Eos Trans. AGU, Fall Meet.  Suppl., Abstract H31N-01.
1.  Hartmann, J., Moosdorf, N., Lauerwald, R., West, A.J., Cohen, S., and Kettner, A.J., 2012. A global view on chemical weathering considering supply limitation and soil shielding. 34th International Geological Congress, IGC, Brisbane Australia.
1.  Higgins, S, 2014, Measuring Land Subsidence in the Coastal Zone, 39th Annual Natural Hazards Research and Applications Workshop, Broomfield, CO, 22-25 June 2014.
1.  Higgins, S, Overeem, I, Syvitski, JPM, 2014, Monitoring delta subsidence with Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR), GC21D-0574, 2014 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Higgins, S, Overeem, I, Syvitski, JPM, Steckler, M, Akhter, SH, & Seeber, L, 2014, InSAR measurements of compaction and subsidence in the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, Bangladesh, Uncertainty and Sensitivity in Surface Dynamics Modeling: Annual Meeting of the Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System (CSDMS), 20-22 Mar 2014, Boulder, CO.
1.  Higgins, S, Overeem, I, Tanaka, A., & Syvitski, JPM, 2013, Land Subsidence at Aquaculture Facilities in the Yellow River Delta, China, Annual Meeting of the American Geological Society (AGU), 9-12 Dec 2013, San Francisco, CA., Abstract #EP34B-07
1.  Higgins, S., Overeem I., and Syvitski, J. P. M. (2015) Potential impacts of Indian Rivers Inter-links on sediment transport to the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta. Models Meet Data, Data Meet Models: Annual Meeting of the Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System (CSDMS), 26-28 May 2015,Boulder, CO, USA.
1.  Hinzman, L.D., W.R. Bolton, J.M. Cable, B. Nijssen, D. Lettenmaier, S.D. Peckham and D. Morton 2012 Quantifying interdependence among processes and characterizing dynamic controls across spatial scales by linking climate, hydrology and ecosystem models, Eos Trans. AGU, Fall Meet. Suppl., Abstract B53E-0710 (or B41C-0311)
1.  Hobley, DE, GE Tucker, JM Adams, NM Gasparini, EWH Hutton, E Istanbulluoglu, and S Nudurupati.  Modeling impact cratering as a geomorphic process using the novel landscape evolution model landlab.  AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts, 1:0868, 2013.
1.  Hobley, DE, GE Tucker, JM Adams, NM Gasparini, EWH Hutton, Erkan Istanbulluoglu, and Sai S Nudurupati. Landlab – a new, open-source, modular, python-based tool for modeling landscape dynamics. 2013 GSA Annual Meeting in Denver, 2013.
1.  Hudson, B., Overeem, I., Mikkelsen, A, McGrath, D., Syvitski, JPM, 2013, Estimating Freshwater Discharge from the Greenland Ice Sheet with MODIS, 2013 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 9- 13 Dec
1.  Hudson, B., Overeem, I., Syvitski, JPM, A Mikkelsen, B Hasholt, M, Morlighem 2014, Global-scale simulation of river-floodplain water and sediment exchange within a riverine modeling framework C14B- 08 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Hutton, EWH, Piper, MD, Peckham, SD, Overeem, I, Kettner, AJ, and Syvitski, JPM, 2014: Building Sustainable Software - The CSDMS Approach, 2nd Workshop on Sustainable Software for Science: Practice and Experiences (WSSSPE2), http://arxiv.org/abs/1407.4106.
1.  Kettner, A., Syvitski, J., Overeem, I., Brakenridge, R., 2013. Flood deposition patterns and channel migration due to a 10-year flood event: the case of the Indus River Flood 2010.  AGU Annual Meeting, San Francisco, Dec 9-13, 2013.
1.  Kettner, A.J., Syvitski, JPM, Overeem, I., and Brakenridge, G.R., 2012, Human induced flooding of the Indus River in 2010: How it changed the landscape. 2012 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 3-7 Dec, GC53C-1295.
1.  Kettner, AJ, 2013. Advances in simulating fluvial sediment transport at basin-scale. Stratodynamics, Nagasaki, Japan.
1.  Kettner, AJ, Syvitski, JPM, Overeem, I, Brakenridge, GR, 2013. Fluvial geomorphological changes of the Indus River due to human failure, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Mayorga, E, Cohen, S, Kettner, AJ, Harrison, JA, Syvitski, JPM, 2014. 50-Year trends in sediments and particulate nutrients and carbon in large rivers: a model-based analysis. Joint Aquatic Sciences Meeting, Portland, USA.
1.  Overeem, I, 2015. Arctic Coastal Zone Processes Reflect Rapid Warming Polar Center, Applied Physics Lab, University of Washington, March 17th 2015.
1.  Overeem, I, Higgins, S, Syvitski, JPM, Kettner, AJ, Brakenridge, RG, 2014, The Impacts of Armoring Our Deltas: Mapping and Modeling Large-Scale Deltaplain Aggradation, GC23G-02, 2014 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Overeem, I., 2014. Frozen Coasts Reflect Rapid Warming. Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences seminar, NASA Arctic Colors Meeting, Gloucester Point, VA, November 2014.
1.  Overeem, I., 2014. Sedimentation Rates in the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, Joint seminar for UNESCOIHE and Deltares, Delft, The Netherlands.
1.  Overeem, I., 2014. Sedimentation in Fluvio-Deltaic Plains, Department of Coastal and Oceanography Science Seminar, Nanjing University, China.
1.  Overeem, I., 2015. Greenlandic Rivers and Ice Sheet Melt. NSF-Office of Polar Programs, Washington DC, May 8th, 2015.
1.  Overeem, I., Borkowski, L., Kettner, A.J., Rusell, B., Peddicord, H., 2015.  Bringing earth surface processes simulations to large audiences. CSDMS Annual Meeting, Boulder, CO, May 26th-28th, 2015.
1.  Overeem, I., Boyd, R., Kettner, A.J., Syvitski, J.P.M., December 3-7, 2012.  Modeling Floodplain Depositional Patterns under Variable Flood Regimes. AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Overeem, I., E. Hutton, A. Kettner, S.D. Peckham and J.P. Syvitski 2012 The Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System: Experiences on building a collaborative modeling platform (Invited), Eos Trans. AGU, Fall Meet. Suppl., Abstract IN54A-06.
1.  Overeem, I., Higgins, S., Syvitski, J., Kettner, A.J., Brakenridge, R., 2014.  The Impacts of Armoring Our Deltas: Mapping and Modeling Large-Scale Deltaplain Aggradation, AGU Fall Meeting, 2014, San Francisco, CA, December 15-19th, 2014.
1.  Overeem, I., Hudson, B., 2014. The Response of Greenlandic Rivers to Ice Sheet Melt, IMAU, Utrecht University, The Netherlands, September 27th, 2014.
1.  Overeem, I., Hudson, B., Mikkelsen, A., van der Broeke, M., Rennermalm, A.  2014. Response of Greenlandic Rivers to Ice Sheet Melt. 44th International Arctic Workshop 15-16th of March, 2014.
1.  Overeem, I., Hudson, B., Welty, E., LeWinter, A., Mikkelsen, A., 2013. River Channel Expansion Reveals Ice Sheet Runoff Variations. AGU Annual Meeting, San Francisco, Dec 9-13, 2013.
1.  Overeem, I., K. Rogers, C. Thorne, Sarker, M., M. Steckler, S.Goodbred, C.  Wilson, C. Small, M.van der Wegen, D. Roelvink, J. Atkinson, M. Zahid, N. Seeber, S. Nooner, J. Davis. 2014.  Monitoring, Research and Analysis of the Bangladesh Coastal Zone, Worldbank Coastal Embankment Improvement Project Division, Dhaka, Bangladesh, March 2, 2014.
1.  Overeem, I., Kim, W., 2013. Understanding coupled earth-surface processes through experiments and models. AGU Annual Meeting, San Francisco, Dec 9-13, 2013.
1.  Overeem, I., Rogers, K., Goodbred, S., Passalacqua, P. 2014. Sedimentation in the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta: natural mangrove forest and embanked polders. Deltas in times of Climate Change II, International Conference, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 24-26th of September, 2014.
1.  Overeem, I., Rogers, K., Passalacqua, P., Canestrelli, A., Cohen, S., Matin, K., 2014. Sedimentation Patterns in the Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta System. AAPG International Meeting, Houston, TX, April 6-9th, 2014.
1.  Peckham, S.D. 2012 Modeling frameworks, workflows and community modeling: Where are we now and where do we go from here? (Invited), Eos Trans. AGU, Fall Meet. Suppl., Abstract IN54B-05.
1.  Peckham, S.D. 2012 Plug-and-play hydrologic modeling: Is that really possible?  (Invited), Eos Trans. AGU, Fall Meet.  Suppl., Abstract IN11B-1462.
1.  Rogers, K.G., and Overeem, I., December, 9-13th, 2013 "Modeling floodplain dynamics: Will the GangesBrahmaputra Delta survive 21st century sea-level rise?” AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Rogers, K.G., and Overeem, I., May 20-22, 2014. Simplifying the Ganges-Brahmaputra sediment dispersal system using a coupled model-field approach, CSDMS Annual Meeting 2014: Uncertainty & Sensitivity in Surface Dyanmics Modeling, Boulder, CO, USA.
1.  Slayback, D., Policelli, F.S., Brakenridge, G.R., Tokay, M.M., Smith, M.M., Kettner, A.J., December 9-13th, 2013. Global, Daily, Near Real-Time Satellite-based Flood Monitoring and Product Dissemination, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Syvitski, JPM & SA Higgins 2014, Subsidence and Relative Sea-level Rise in Threatened Deltas, H31L-01, 2014 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2013, The Forest and the Trees: Assessing the Global to Local Footprint of Humans, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Sept 9, 2013
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2013, Tropical Climate, Water and Rivers, Nov. 4, 2013 Symposia — Global environmental change and development in Botswana: Lessons from our past inform our future. University of Botswana, Gabaronne, Botswana
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, Arctic rivers, flow, historical changes, sediments, morphology, coastal erosion. JUNE 23-25, 2014 Arctic-COLORS, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt Maryland USA
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, CSDMS 2.0 - Building the Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System, CheMS-14 Symposium, Annapolis USA.
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, Coastal Subsidence, 2014 Science Workshop, UNAVCO, Boulder CO
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, Rivers of the Anthropocene, Jan 23-25, 2014 Rivers of the Anthropocene, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis (IUPUI)
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, The Future of Surface Dynamics Modeling: A View Through Rose Tinted Glasses.  International Environmental Modelling and Software Society (iEMSs) 7th Intl. Congress on Env.  Modelling and Software, San Diego, CA, USA
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, The Global Water Cycle in the World of the Anthropocene, 7th Int’l Scientific Conference on the Global Energy and Water Cycle, The Hague, The Netherlands, 14-18 July 2014
1.  Syvitski, JPM 2014, The Peril of Deltas: India and elsewhere -Welcome to the Anthropocene, IGBP Symposium: 07, April 2014, Bangalore India
1.  Syvitski, JPM Cohen, S., Kettner, A.J., Brakenridge, G.R., 2013. New Possibilities in Global Hydrology and Sediment Transport, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Syvitski, JPM, 2012, Life at the Edge: Sinking Deltas, 3rd Joint Intl Conference: IGCP 588 “Preparing for Coastal Change” INQUA 1001 “Late Quaternary records of coastal evolution”, Kiel, Germany, 4-7 Sept 2012
1.  Syvitski, JPM, 2012, Loss of aqua- and agra-land in high population sinking deltas, 2nd Australian Earth System Outlook Conference Ticking time bombs in the human-earth system: information, status, timing, significance, research need, Canberra, Australia
1.  Syvitski, JPM, 2012, Observing the Anthropocene — The Geology of Humanity, 2nd GEOSS Science and Technology Stakeholder Network Workshop, Bonn, Germany, 28-31 Aug 2012
1.  Syvitski, JPM, 2012, Policies for Mitigating Human Impact on Terrestrial Sediments, IIASA 40th Anniversary Conference: World Within Reach: From Science to Policy, Vienna Austria, 2012
1.  Syvitski, JPM, 2013. Geo-engineering the Waterways of Lowland Floodplains and Deltas. Water in the Anthropocence, Bonn, Germany 21-24 May 2013.
1.  Syvitski, JPM, 2013. The Challenge of Anthropocene Rivers. Rivers of the Anthropocene Conference, Indianapolis University, January 23, 2014.
1.  Syvitski, JPM, E. Hutton; S.D. Peckham; I. Overeem; A. Kettner, 2012, CSDMS2.0: Computational Infrastructure for Community Surface Dynamics Modeling, 2012 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, 3-7 Dec, IN51D-1707
1.  Syvitski, JPM, Hutton, E.W.H., Piper, M., Overeem, I., Kettner, A.J., Peckham, S.D., 2014. Plug and Play Component Modeling — The CSDMS2.0 Approach. IEMSS, San-Diego, CA, USA.
1.  Syvitski, JPM, I Overeem, Brakenridge, RG, Hudson, B, Cohen, S., 2014, Arctic River Discharge and Sediment Loads --- an Overview, B34B-07, 2014 Fall Meeting, AGU, San Francisco, Calif., 15-19 Dec
1.  Syvitski, JPM, Multiple Influences Affecting Continental Scale Sediment Transport Rates. Geological Society of America Annual Meeting, 27-30 Oct, 2013. Denver, CO, USA.
1.  Syvitski, JPM, Simulating the modern discharge of water and sediment: a global approach. 10th International Conference on Fluvial Sedimentology (ICFS10), Leeds, UK, July 14-19 2013.
1.  Syvitski, JPM, The Future of Surface Dynamics Modeling: A View Through Rose Tinted Glasses. iEMSs 2014, June 16-18, 2014. San Diego, CA, USA.
1.  Upton, P., Vandergoes, M., Stumpner, P., Levy, R., Roop, H., Fitzsimmons, S., Howarth, J., Gorman, A., Dunbar, G., Kettner, A.J., 2012 Using numerical models to place constraints on fluvial input into glacial lakes, Southern Alps, New Zealand. AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Xing, F., Kettner, A.J., Syvitski, JPM, Ye, Q., Atkinson, J., Bevington, A., Twilley, R., 2013. Impact of vegetation on the hydrodynamics and morphological changes of the Wax Lake Delta during hurricanes, AGU, San Francisco, CA, USA.
1.  Xing, F., Kettner, A.J., Syvitski, JPM, and Atkinson, J., May 20-22, 2014.  Hydrodynamics and morphological changes of the Wax Lake Delta (WLD) during hurricane Rita, 2005.  CSDMS 2014 annual meeting, Uncertainty and Sensitivity in Surface Dynamics Modeling, Boulder Colorado, USA.
